Descent Online FAQ


  I am using a Gateway 2000 P75 and the colors in Descent Online are distorted.  
 Perform a hard reboot of your computer and go into your Bios Setup.  Find the "VGA Palette Snoop" 
option and disable it.  This should fix the problem.
 
  Descent Online runs slowly on my machine, especially in large battles.  
 Try putting your detail level on a lower setting.  Also try using F3 and +/- to change the size of the 
game window.  Also, lowering the number of available sound channels through the 
Options/Detail/Custom menus can help significantly in large battles.
 
  I have a small game window and a low detail level, but Descent Online still loads and runs slowly.  
 Check you sound card settings by running the Descent Online Setup program.  Incorrect settings can 
cause significant slowing.  To access the Setup program, go to the GAMES\DESCENTO subdirectory, 
type SETUP and press Enter.
 
  My walls in my game seem to jump around in the distance.  
 This can happen when the Detail Level is set below the highest setting.
 
  My computer has 8 MB of RAM.  How do I speed up the game and reduce the hard drive access 
time?
 If you have less that 16 MB of RAM, try running a disk cache (even as small as 256k).  This can help 
immensely.  Also load the game by typing "DESCENTO -lowmem" so you trade off animation detail 
for speed.  You might consider purchasing a memory upgrade; every meg of RAM you add will 
increase performance.
 
  Why does Descent Online lock up when I run it?
 It could be a sound card problem; load the program by typing "DESCENT ONLINE -nosound".  Run 
the Setup program and make sure your card settings are correct.  If you do not hear digital sounds or 
music when you test them in Setup, try the Auto Detect Sound Hardware option.  If this does not help, 
refer to your sound card manual for troubleshooting instructions. 
 
  Why does my computer lock up during setup when autodetecting for a sound card?
 Due to hardware conflicts, autodetecting for sound cards is a risky process.  If you know the brand, 
port address, IRQ and DMA of your sound cards; you should manually configure these items.  
Lockups are also common when autodetection is used but no sound cards are installed. 
 
  I do not hear anything when I test my sound in setup?
 There are several possibilities.  You may have the wrong sound cared selected.  You may have 
selected the incorrect port, IRO or DMA settings.  The volume may be set too low in your sound 
drivers (or the volume slider on the back of your sound card).  Hardware conflicts or loose cables may 
also be to blame.
 
  Why does the introduction music stop when I reach the Main menu?
 You probably have your Music Volume slider set too low in the Options menu.  All Options settings 
are stored in your pilot file;  when the game identifies your pilot name, it lowers the volume to a level 
you may have customized.
 
  My joystick is not responding when I play the game?
 Be sure you have Joystick selected in the Options/Controls menu, and make sure the joystick is 
calibrated.  If your joystick connects to your sound card, make sure the joystick port jumper is enabled 
on the card.  Some sound cards have this disabled by default.
 
   Hey!  Why did some of my powerups disappear?
 Certain powerups will remove themselves from the game if they have been around four or five 
minutes.  This only happens to Concussion missiles, Energy powerups and Shield powerups dropped 
by a dead player.
 
   I have a Thrustmaster WCS hooked up with a joystick.  When I use the stick to fly and the A 
and Z keys to move forward and backward, I start flying out of control.   
 Because these devices intercept the keyboard signals, your ship may fly strangely when you also hold 
down keyboard keys (like A and Z). It's recommended that you use WCS or FLCS for throttle control 
and sliding, not the keyboard. 
 
